Now that you've got an idea of what
Python code looks like, let's check out
one of the most basic examples and dive
deeper into what's going on.
Get ready. We're going to use the
Python interpreter to make our computer
say hello to the world.
When we run this code either locally on
our machine or on a web interpreter, the
words hello world appear on the screen,
just like magic.
Actually it's not magic.
It's because Print is a Python function
that writes what we tell it to on the
screen. Like the statement hello world
for example, the print function is part
of the basic Python language, whenever
we use keywords or functions that are
part of the language, we're using the
programming language's syntax to tell
the computer what to do. So what are
functions and keywords?
Functions are pieces of code that
perform a unit of work.
We'll talk a lot more about functions
later on, and you'll even learn how to
write your own. Keywords are reserved
words that are used to construct
instructions. These words are the core
part of the language and can only be
used in specific ways.
Some examples include if, while, and
for.
We'll explain all of those and a bunch
more later in the course.
As we called out, the keywords and
functions used in Python are what makes
up the syntax of the language.
Once we understand how they work, we
can use them to construct more complex
expressions that get the computer to do
what we want it to do.
Last off, notice how hello world is
written between double quotation marks.
Wrapping text in quotation marks
indicates that the text is considered a
string, which means it's text that will
be manipulated by our script.
In programming, any text that isn't
inside quotation marks is considered
part of the code. Now, for a bit of
trivia, do you know why we printed the
whole world in our example?
Well, printing hello world has been the
traditional way to start learning a
programming language since way back in
the '70s when it was used as the first
example in a famous programming book
called the C programming language.
That example looked like this.
In Python, the hello world example is
just one line, in C, it's three lines,
in other languages, it can be even
more.
While learning to write hello world
won't teach you the whole language, it
gives you a first impression of how
functions are used, and how a program
written in that language looks.
All right, now that we've written our
first piece of Python code, I think
you're ready for something a bit more
challenging than hello world.
Ready? Let's do it.